So in the last lecture we created a plugin to register custom post types.
So let's now go to this plugin and let's go to the file that we created portfolio-post-type and let's register our post type.
So let's open PHP tags.
And to register a post type you need to hook into the "init" action. So let's add_action() and then "init".
And then let's create a function and let's call it "_themename__pluginname_
setup_
post_type". And let's create this function.
So inside of this function we can call the function called register_post_type(). And register_post_type() will take a name for the
post type.
So in our case we need to create a portfolio. But also this needs to be prefixed.
So portfolio is a very generic name and it might cause some conflicts with other plugins.
So you have to prefix this with your theme name. So "_themename_portfolio". And then it takes
an array arguments.
So let's define a variable $args and let's see what arguments we can pass here.
So this will be an array.
So first you can pass an argument called "public". So we need our post type to be public.
We need everybody to be able to see it.
So let's set this to "true". We've also an argument called "has_archive". So we need our post type to have its own archives.
So let's set this to "true". We also have "menu-icon".
So this one will specify the icon that will appear here.
And this argument takes an icon name from an icon set called Dashicons.
So I'll put you a link to this.
You can choose any one of these. So let's maybe search for "gallery" and let's copy this one. And this will
be the name that we will give to this argument.
So let's save now and see what we have in the admin.
So let's go to the Dashboard. And as you can see we have a new item here but it's still called Posts and the icon
is not working as well.
I think this one is called "menu_icon". So let's refresh.
And now we have the icon but it's still called Posts. And we here also we have "All Posts". And Posts here and no
posts sound.
So how do we change these labels is by passing an argument called "labels". And then let's pass it a variable
that we will create now called $labels. And this will a huge array of labels.
So I'm gonna copy and paste this.
There's no need to type all of this. So here I'm gonna paste a variable called $labels and this is
an array of labels.
So we've the name. So "Portfolio" and it has to be a escaped and translated.
And we have our text domain "_themename-"
and then plugin name. So we can edit all of these labels, we have the singular name, the menu name, the add new
label, add new item, added item and so on.
So you can take a look at this and let's save now and see.
And now we have "Portfolio".
And "All Portfolio Items" and "No Portfolio Items found" and so on.
So this is an important argument here.
Let's now try and create a new portfolio item.
And as you can see we have our title and the content.
But we don't have for example, the featured image, we don't have the comment, we don't have the
author and stuff like that.
So to add these boxes we can add a new argument. And it's called "supports". And this can be an array of
boxes to support this post type.
So let's, we need the "title" and we need the "editor" which will have the content. We can also have
the "author" and the "thumbnail", the
featured image. We might also need an "excerpt". And maybe you need "comments" to your portfolio items. So we can
add that well.
And let's refresh now.
And as you can see we have the featured image, we have the comments and the excerpt and the author. So this function,
register_post_type().
It takes a lot of other the arguments. You can search for it and see what other arguments it can take.
But these are the ones that we will need to override.
So that's it for the post type. Let's go now and define the custom taxonomies.
So let's go to the project-type-tax. And let's open PHP and we also need to hook into the
"init" action.
And I'm gonna create a function called "_themename__pluginname_register
_project_type_tax" or tax.
So that's a long name but let's now create this function.
And like the type we'll call a function called register_taxonomy().
So let's call this one "_themename_", also be prefixed. So "_themename_project_type".
And it will take an array of post types.
And these are the post types that we need this taxonomy to appear in.
So we need this taxonomy to appear in the post type that we just created.
So,
it will need the slug of the post type which is this one. So let's add this.
And it also takes some arguments. So let's define arguments. And it will be an array.
So the first argument we'll define is "hierarchical" and this one is important.
So if we set this to "true" the taxonomy will have the UI of the categories where you can add children and parents,
so project types and subtypes and stuff like that.
If we set this to "false" we will have the UI of tags and we'll do that for the skill taxonomy.
So let's set this is "true".
And let's add another one called "show_admin_column". And let's set it "true" and we'll see what
it means in a moment.
And we also have "labels". And this will be similar to the labels for the custom post type. So I'm gonna
also copy and paste this array.
And similar to the custom post type we have the "name" and "singular_name", "search_items" and stuff like that.
So let's save now and see what we have here.
So now as you can see we have Project Types and here we can add new project types.
And when we add a new portfolio item we have the Project Type here and it has the UI of the category.
So we can add a project type. We can add one with a parent and so on.
Great, so let's do now the
skills taxonomy. And for this one I'm just gonna paste it. It will be exactly like this
one except that we will set the "hierarchical" to "false". So let's paste.
And as you can see we'll just change the function name and the taxonomy name. And we'll set this to "false" and
we'll also change the labels.
So let's save and see now. And we have a new one.
And also we have here skills where we can add skills like tags.
So now let's actually create a new portfolio item that will have these tags and categories. And let's
publish it. And let's try and view it.
And you'll find the 404 page.
So let's see why this happens and how can we solve this in the next lecture.